# Bank-Marketing-Data-Analysis

Businesses rely on data-driven solutions to overcome economic instability and contend with new competitors. These data-driven solutions often reflect customer characteristics and employ data-mining techniques to analyze or predict customer behavior. Using the information obtained from the customers' data, businesses can strategically plan initiatives to influence attention to their services, maintain their current customer base, and expand their reach to new clients.   

From 2008 to 2013, a Portuguese retail bank conducted a direct marketing campaign to persuade new customers to commit to a long term deposit with favorable interest rates. The bank communicated with customers through telephone calls independently and, during these calls, they documented the customers’ personal characteristics and whether they said “yes” of “no” to signing up for a long term deposit. The information collected from their clients during the campaign was completely or partially recorded for each client in bank marketing data set. More information about the data set is available on the UCI machine learning repository and the relevant publication based on this data set. 

In this project, We will at first engage in data exploration and visualizations using ggplot2. Probably, there are some missing values in the data set (marked as unknown). We will determine whether these unknown attribute for some of clients should be imputed by mean, median or treated differently. After that, we are interested in building classification models to predict whether a customer will commit to a long-term deposit. In particular, we will establish some classification models (like logistic regression, K-NN, SVM, random forest and so on) for the bank market data, and then evaluate and compare the performance of the fitted models. Finally, we will try to extract useful information from the data set and classification models based on our analysis and provide the company with some good suggestions for the next campaign.
